## **How a request gets served**

In computer science, request–response or request–reply is one of the basic methods computers use to communicate with each other in a network, in which the first computer sends a request for some data and the second responds to the request.

For simplicity, this pattern is typically implemented in a purely synchronous fashion, as in web service calls over HTTP, which holds a connection open and waits until the response is delivered or the timeout period expires. However, request–response may also be implemented asynchronously, with a response being returned at some unknown later time.

In contrast, one-way computer communication, which is like the push-to-talk or "barge in" feature found on some phones and two-way radios, sends a message without waiting for a response. Sending an email is an example of one-way communication, and another example are fieldbus sensors, such as most CAN bus sensors, which periodically and autonomously send out their data, whether or not any other devices on the bus are listening for it.

## *Procedure to handle request*

  - AuthTrans (authorization translation)

  - Verify any authorization information (such as name and password) sent in the request.

  - NameTrans (name translation)

  - Translate the logical URI into a local file system path.

  - PathCheck (path checking)

  - Check the local file system path for validity and check that the requestor has access privileges to the requested resource on the file system.

  - ObjectType (object typing)

  - Determine the MIME-type (Multi-purpose Internet Mail Encoding) of the requested resource (for example, text/html, image/gif, and so on).

  - Input (prepare to read input)

  - Select filters that will process incoming request data read by the Service step.

  - Output (prepare to send output)

  - Select filters that will process outgoing response data generated by the Service step.

  - Service (generate the response)

  - Generate and return the response to the client.

  - AddLog (adding log entries)

  - Add entries to log file.

  - Error (service)
  
    - This step is executed only if an error occurs in the previous steps. If an error occurs, the server logs an error message and aborts the process.
